OK, it's the 17th of May 2019 and I'm here with Mr Clive Powell at his bike shop in Raider.
I'm Stephanie Cruise of the Ellen Lynx Project.
Clive, have you always lived in Raider?
No, I haven't always lived in Raider. My family lived here for a few generations,
but I spent my youth mostly in South Wales and I came to live around this area in my early twenties.
Right, and when did you take on the bike shop, running the bike shop?
Uh, 1994. I started my bike business in 1985, running guided mountain bike trips,
and I used to keep a few bits and pieces, parts and so on, in a box, and then after a while
that box became a cupboard, and then finally the cupboard wasn't big enough and I had to open a shop.
Right, and the guided bike trips, were they around this area, up the valley?
Yep, in the Ellen Valley, yeah, all off-road. It was what was the beginning of the mountain bike thing.
Because there used to be motorbike races around here, I understand.
Yeah, that's right, off-road motorcycling is a big sport in this area.
But you started the off-road bicycles.
That's right, yeah, I mean when I used to come riding into town on my mountain bike covered in mud,
people used to look at me in amazement. They were used to seeing motorbikes coming through town with dirt on them,
but to see somebody riding a bicycle with dirt on it, they just couldn't figure it out.
Was it hard in the early days getting the business started? Was there a lot of interest in?
No, I mean it was very much a minority sport in those days, but it quickly expanded,
it snowballed right from the start.
Good, and the building that we're in at the moment is quite fascinating.
Do you know anything about the history of it?
Yeah, more or less. It started off life as an agricultural building,
and bits were added to it over a fairly short period of time.
And after not very long, I believe, it became a pub, and it was a pub for 400 years until I took it on.
So had it closed down as a pub before you took it on, or was it still?
It wasn't operating as a pub, it had been operating as a pub up until about six months before I bought it.
It was a very, very well-known pub in the area, a very popular pub, so I did make a few enemies to begin with.
Very different trade, really.
Yes, but yeah, fascinating building.
So how have you found running a business in Raider?
Because obviously over the years there's been economic fluctuations.
Yeah, I mean it's not an accident, but it's a bit of a shock.
Yeah, I mean it's not an affluent area, people don't have a lot of money,
and even though it's a tourism destination, it's fairly small,
sitting as it is in between the Snowdonia National Park and the Brecon Beacons National Park.
Nobody knows this area, and not that many people come, so I'm drawing on quite a small customer base, really.
You get people coming back year after year?
Yeah, people that know the area, they get to love it and they do tend to come back every year.
And how have you found the electric bike development?
Well, it's taken a while to get going, but it's now sort of developed full steam and it's really taking off.
And probably in terms of turnover, we're selling more in e-bikes than any other type of bikes.
Wow, and are they being used locally? Are they used up in the valley?
Yeah, mostly.
Yes, so what do you think the future holds for your business?
I think a lot of it will be in e-bikes in the immediate future and the long-term future.
Are there any more plans for bike races?
As in organising them? I probably won't organise any myself.
Bike organisation has become much more formalised and structured and there's less scope for small people like myself to be putting on events.
It's the governing bodies mostly that are taking it on.
Do they come here? Do they use Ellen Valley as one of their venues?
Not really, they're mostly closed circuits.
Right, thank you very much for that, Nick. That's really, really helpful.